[Workers] Langchain/Pinecone/Notion tutorial (#10362)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/tutorials/create-a-chatgpt-powered-search-plugin/index.md

- `PINECONE_INDEX_NAME`: this is the name of the Pinecone index you created earlier.

Here's how to deploy it:

1. Make sure you're in your project's directory, then run the following command:

```sh
$ npx wrangler deploy
```

2. Wrangler will package and upload your code.

3. After your application is deployed, Wrangler will provide you with your worker's URL.

Now your Notion Workspace is available and searchable via the provided workers URL.

## Step 8: Add the plugin to ChatGPT

ChatGPT Plugins, which are in alpha, allow you to augment ChatGPT's functionality with custom functionality. When it is appropriate, ChatGPT will query your plugin to provide additional information to the user.

To add a new ChatGPT plugin, select the "Alpha" option at the top of ChatGPT's UI for the model option, and select "Plugins". A new button appear with the test "No plugins enabled". Select this button and select the "Plugin store" option.

In the new modal popup, select "Develop your own plugin". This will allow you to enter a custom plugin URL and use your own plugins directly in ChatGPT. Enter the deployed Workers URL, as seen below:

> ![ChatGPT's custom plugin UI, allowing you to enter a URL](./custom-plugin.png)

Reviewer: If you move the file to the `/assets/images/workers/tutorials/` folder and then reference via `/images/workers/tutorials`, you actually get some image compression + reduced CLS for free.

Reviewer 2: nice, didn't know this! fixed.

---
content_type: 📝 Tutorial
difficulty: Intermediate
pcx_content_type: tutorial
layout: single
title: Build a ChatGPT search plugin with Notion & Pinecone
updated: 2023-08-14
weight: 1
---

# Build a ChatGPT search plugin with Notion & Pinecone

> In this tutorial, you'll use Langchain, a JavaScript package for working with large language models, and Pinecone, a vector database, to index a Notion workspace. You'll then be able to query it using a custom ChatGPT plugin built with Cloudflare Workers.

Reviewer 3: link?

Reviewer 2: Added links in this para

- Node.js and npm installed on your machine.
- Access to a Notion workspace and an integration token.
- An OpenAI API key.
- A Pinecone account and API key.

## Step 1: Create a Worker Application

First, use the `c3` CLI to create a new Cloudflare Workers project. You can use the ChatGPT plugin template to start:

```sh
$ npx create-cloudflare-cli --template chatgpt-plugin <project-name>
```

Replace `<project-name>` with your desired project name. This will create a new project directory with the specified name and place the ChatGPT plugin template files in this directory.

## Step 2: Create a Pinecone Index

Pinecone provides a vector indexes, which are a special type of database that stores your data as "vectors", and allows quick querying and retrieval. In this tutorial, you'll use a free Pinecone index to store the relevant vectors for your Notion workspace.

To begin, create a Pinecone account. In this tutorial, everything you build will be storable in the free tier. Once you've created an account, you'll then need to wait a few minutes for your project to be created.

> In your project dashboard, create a new index. Give it a memorable name (in this tutorial, we'll use the name `example-index`), and in the index configuration, enter a dimension value of `1536`. This is a typical value used in many AI applications, and is the format used by a tool you will later use -- OpenAI's embedding API.

Reviewer 3: what is in an index?

// 404 for everything else
router.all("*", () => new Response("Not Found.", { status: 404 }));
```

This section defines one GET route for each of the imported handlers. Whenever a GET request is sent to `YOUR_WORKER_URL/search`, it will pass the request to `GetSearch` handler. Similarly, `YOUR_WORKER_URL/pinecone` is handled by `IndexToPinecone`. Any other routes will result in a "Not Found" message with HTTP status code 404.

```typescript
// Export default handler
export default {
	fetch: router.handle,
};
```

This part exports the router's handle method as a fetch method, which makes this router usable as a worker script. `fetch` is a default entry point for Cloudflare workers, where incoming fetch events will be passed in to be handled by the router.

## Step 7: Deploying Your Worker Application

Once you've created your Worker application and added the required functions, you can then deploy the application to Workers. 

Before you deploy, you'll need to initialize a number of secret values for your application. For each of the following values, run the following command:

```sh
$ npx wrangler secret put <secret-name>
```

> - `AUTHORIZATION`: this is an optional authorization token that can be used to secure your application. If you don't want to use this, you can leave it blank.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `AUTHORIZATION`(optional): An optional authorization token that can be used to secure your application. If you do not want to use this, you can leave it blank.
```

> - `NOTION_INTEGRATION_TOKEN`: this is the Notion integration token you created earlier.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `NOTION_INTEGRATION_TOKEN`: The Notion integration token you created in step __.
```
What step did they create this in?

> - `NOTION_PAGE_ID`: this is the ID of the Notion page you want to index.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `NOTION_PAGE_ID`: The ID of the Notion page you want to index.
```

> - `OPENAI_API_KEY`: this is the OpenAI API key you created earlier.

Reviewer 4: Did they create this earlier in a step or was it in the prerequisites before starting the tutorial?

> - `PINECONE_API_KEY`: this is the Pinecone API key you created earlier.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `PINECONE_API_KEY`: The Pinecone API key you created earlier.
```
What step?

> - `PINECONE_ENVIRONMENT`: this is the environment that Pinecone deploys to.
> - `PINECONE_INDEX_NAME`: this is the name of the Pinecone index you created earlier.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `PINECONE_ENVIRONMENT`: The environment that Pinecone deploys to.
- `PINECONE_INDEX_NAME`: The name of the Pinecone index you created earlier.
```
What step did they create it earlier in?

> Here's how to deploy it:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To deploy your Worker application to the Cloudflare global network:
```

> 1. Make sure you're in your project's directory, then run the following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Make sure you are in your Worker project's directory, then run the [`npx wrangler deploy`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#deploy) command:
```

```sh
$ npx wrangler deploy
```

2. Wrangler will package and upload your code.

> 3. After your application is deployed, Wrangler will provide you with your worker's URL.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. After your application is deployed, Wrangler will provide you with your Worker's URL.
```

> Now your Notion Workspace is available and searchable via the provided workers URL.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Now your Notion Workspace is available and searchable via the provided Workers URL.
```

> ## Step 8: Add the plugin to ChatGPT

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## 8. Add the plugin to ChatGPT
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

The ChatGPT Plugins API is currently in alpha. This means that the instructions or text above may be out-of-date.

{{</Aside>}}

ChatGPT Plugins, which are in alpha, allow you to augment ChatGPT's functionality with custom functionality. When it is appropriate, ChatGPT will query your plugin to provide additional information to the user.

> To add a new ChatGPT plugin, select the "Alpha" option at the top of ChatGPT's UI for the model option, and select "Plugins". A new button appear with the test "No plugins enabled". Select this button and select the "Plugin store" option.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To add a new ChatGPT plugin:

1. Log in to ____.
2. Select the **Alpha** option at the top of ChatGPT's dashboard for the model option.
3. Select **Plugins**.
3. A new button appear with the text `No plugins enabled`. Select this button and select the **Plugin store** option.
```
Where does the user need to be to follow these instructions? Include this in 1.

> In the new modal popup, select "Develop your own plugin". This will allow you to enter a custom plugin URL and use your own plugins directly in ChatGPT. Enter the deployed Workers URL, as seen below:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the new modal popup, select **Develop your own plugin**. This will allow you to enter a custom plugin URL and use your own plugins directly in ChatGPT. Enter the deployed Workers URL, as seen below:
```
